Excel Reminder Tips 

FILL ALL BLANK CELLS WITH 0
1. Select the entire range of cells that contains the blanks, including those that contain values.

2. On the Home tab, in the Editing group, click Find and Select, then click Go To..., or just press F5.

3. Click Special, select Blanks and click OK

4. Type a 0 (zero), hold down CTRL and press ENTER

All the blank cells should now contain zeroes.


MATRIX MULTIPLICATION

columns in array 1 match rows in array 2

any blank ot text values and the whole formula goes to value error

need to have ranges and not tables 


Reverse order of table:

use power query, data->from table/range -> keep rows-> reverse rows

helper column, make a sequence then reverse order of sequence

can't insert into top of latest first recxingred table

2nd way: Make helper column using sequence, paste as plain text into next column over, 
sort the helper with the data 


Insert into bottom, 
fill with 0s, then rexXNUt will be defined for the new recipes and can reverse it

CAN use IF(
ISBLANK to fill blank cells, creates a new array of test conditions the size
of the array used in ISBLANK


METHODOLOGY FOR RECIPEXCOST

I need the ingredients in the coloumns and rows to match 
in the cost sheet I have multiples of the same ingredient at different 
sizes and brands and also some ingredients that I never used in a recipe
but i could in the future use as a substitute or to try 

I want to know what the difference in cost would be if I use a different brand,
sub an ingredient or buy in a different size 

I have a mixed ingredient: vegan butter in the recipe column but I don't want 
to calculate the cost for it right now, so i'm just going to use the coconut oil cost
because it's mainlycoconut oil. 

SO: i added the Vbutter to the cost sheet and will copy the cost of coco oil down to it

so: I included the ingreidents foundwith a cost in the recipes sheet, and I will fill with 
0s, when I want to know how changing a recipe with a different ingredient type or bulk 
will affect cost I'll fill in the value in that column and run the formula 

a cost per use could be another usefull stat to find here 

CAn't do ensted arrays in excel
no formula can evaluate an array within an array MUNIT({1,2}} is asked to give an identity
matrix of 1x1 and 2x2 which it can't 


WHAT I WANT MY UPDATE RECIPE MACRO TO DO 

1. when I enter a new recipe dateType into a cell, of the column containing 
all recipe dateTypes 
2. take that recipe dateType and add it to a different worksheet
in the same place with the same order as in the original worksheet column
3. For the derived worksheets: 
Take the new ingredients on the row(the recipe) and use them to  update
the formula --> In practice this means putting the old formula into the top left
cell, the one after the header and index, and use the new range of all the cells
that have values in them in the first worksheet(recipeXIngredients) inside the 
formula range 


VBA

run/test and f5(run/test) will run whether inside a sub or outside it, if outside it'll ask which sub to run
if inside it'll just run 

can only use a macro from an open workbook if it doesn't exist in the current workbook
can only use a macro on a n open workbook or else have to path into it and open 


        
